The Joe Rogan experience. Uh, yeah. Anyway, go ahead. I just got wanderlust,
huh? Yeah, I guess so. I mean.
Yeah,
I guess so it was this a cool experience and once you get that taste of kind of
freedom, it's like a little bit hard to go back to a nine to five,
I guess I can.
Only imagine. I can only imagine that feeling when you're 19 years old,
you know, and to go back to a cubicle.
Right, right. Something like that. Yeah. No torture.
So we did some construction jobs in Virginia and then,
uh, and then, uh, you know,
I was a young guy trying to figure out how to live a meaningful life or
whatever, you know, what am I gonna do with my life? And, uh, did.
You have thoughts? Did you have like an aspiration.
I guess, to provide some context? I was, I'm like follow a Christian path.
So I was, uh, uh, that me always feels like I got to put some,
uh, caveats to that. Like it's like,
I understand for a lot of people that means shame.
I know you had like some mean nuns. Yeah. You heard that
one mean none in particular straighten me right out. I was like, all right. No,
that's I know it means a lot of things, a lot of people,
but for me it was always like,
it was interesting because it was summed up in like in the Bible, like,
uh, you know, love the Lord,
your God with all your heart and love your neighbor as yourself and God is
defined as love. And so that was kind of always the core focus for my mom.
You know, how I tried to decide what I was going to do in life.
And at the time I heard of a guy that was over in Russia,
building orphanages and needed help.
And so felt really strongly that, Hey, that was the right thing to do.
How did you know this? Uh,
so I have a brother that's adopted and when he grew up,
he wanted to find his biological mom and just tell her,
thanks for the chance at life or whatever.
And when he did it turns out she had another son who was going to go over there
and I met him and he told me about this guy. So, uh,
so I,
I basically felt it was the right thing to do and bought a ticket for a year,
you know, just the full years go over to Russia and, and I headed over there.
And that was kind of how the next chapter, I guess, started in life. Uh,
how old were you then? Probably 21 or something. Yeah, 21.
So 21 don't know anybody over there. Don't know how to speak.
Russian. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That was, uh, that was interesting. I, uh,
tried to learn. Oh, absolutely. So this guy that I was,
it was building the orphanages, that American guy,
but I went over there and I didn't want to live in the American cause I wanted
to learn Russian. So he sent me to a neighboring village with, uh,
these two families. Both of them were like ex cons and you know,
I'd been spending a lot of time in Siberian prisons, but they changed, you know,
they were like super cool dudes. One guy was just covered in prison tattoos.
One of the funniest guys, I know, but he, uh, did drink a lot, you know,
they did. And those guys didn't cause they changed their ways, you know, prison.
So they, uh, they took me in like one of their own and uh,
and I spent the better part of that year with those guys learning the language.
And.
How much did you know before you got there? How much running within.
Just the alphabet. Yeah. So it was, it was brutal. Yeah. I mean,
I could make the sounds, cause I knew the alphabet,
but I didn't know what anything meant. So, so it was, yeah,
that was an interesting experience. Like just very isolating,
to be honest. But also it was a, I mean it was pretty cool, you know,
in hindsight. Yeah.
So you could write things to people in that. What is that called Cyrillic?
Is that what it's called? Right, right, right.
So you could write things in so you could read it as well. Yeah.
Yeah. As I learned,
of course I could pronounce out the words cause I could read it.
I didn't know what anything meant over time. I started to learn the, uh,
of course the guy lived to us with just taught me all the prisons laying and
stuff. It was always sure. Yeah.
Great.
Wow. So, um,
that's a crazy thing to do to just go move there with no rush at all.
Did you buy a book on English to Russian? Yeah. I found.
The best way. If you ever go to a different country now, no.
Anything just have a notepad with you and throughout you'll start to like get
familiar with words as you live in there. And then at the end of the day, I,
you know, I'd write those words down. As I recognize them at the end of the day,
I would look up the definition and just five to 10 words a day,
just slowly learn. And, and by the end of the year, I was pretty,
you know, starting to get to where I could be comfortable.
So go long conversation with people after.
Yeah, it was brutal. It was a long time to wait, but.
It seems like it would be harder than Spanish or French because you have to
learn those crazy alphabet. It's so difficult. The alphabet.
And the grammar so different. I, I, uh, I many times know anything about it.
How has the grammar, you don't speak. Like if you want to say like, I love you,
you know, there's no, there's no form in the sentence.
Like you could say you love, I love you. You know,
you could throw the words in any direct in any order,
but the word actually changes based on its role in the sentence.
So when you're learning the language,
you just get all these words dumped on you and you have to like try to sort
through, uh, you know, how it's formed. How.
Would you say I love you in Russian? No.
You could say Yachty, be ALU blue or you blew out tibia or TBI. Yeah.
New blue. You know, there's like a, is there a.
Reason why you'd say it in different ways? I think you could.
Emphasize make different it's it is a flexible language and that yeah.
You could switch it up to emphasize certain aspects.
Vigorous. Like would people be like, are you sure?
No, no. I think it works pretty good.
Well, that's not a phrase. I got a lot of practice with what else?
So when you were up there and these folks have these,
a caribou and they're riding them and they're taking care of them,
do they shield the other caribou from seeing one of them get
slaughtered?
No, they don't seem to be too worried about it. Like, uh,
there's it's a very like mutually,
it's a symbiotic relationship with the reindeer and the reindeer.
They're always getting attacked by wolves and tore up and stuff.
And they always are coming to the people for protection in those times,
not only from wolves, but even from like mosquitoes and gnats, you know,
they'll block big smoky fires.
So the reindeer know people are their friends and I guess, uh,
sort of are okay with an occasional indicational sacrifice.
So.
If they have 200 of them, how often do they kill one? They.
Try not to kill them.
Like they actually really avoid trying to kill their own reindeer.
It's that you're mostly living off of, you know, moose and uh,
wild reindeer and oh, game birds and stuff. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah.
Okay. So because these are domesticated, they, they just behaved.
They're really, it's so weird to see them like with sex.
Yeah. They're uh, almost they've been,
they were one of the first animals to be domesticated actually. Interesting.
Yeah. This is interesting. So they, before dogs, not before,
but one of the first I guess. Yeah. And then they, uh,
and they've been domesticated so long that they don't even know how to
domesticate wild ones anymore. So this.
Is crazy, Jay, Jamie, go back to that. Let me see how they put up these TPCP.
So is this, uh, there, they have this set up ready to go. Yeah.
And then when they get to a place and they decide to,
then they pull out the sticks.
In the summer,
you're moving every three days or so just following the reindeer herd through
the forest, you know, in the winter, they everything's a little slower,
you'll be in a place for a month or so, but just yeah, no mat nomads.
And what is it doing? The weather sucks. Like they have this, this T tea.
Is out, you know, it's, you're just out in the weather also basically when it's,
when it's really cold, negative 50, you know,
like they have a little wood stove in the, in the,
in the teepee and it was this thing pretty.
Warm. It actually is the wind because the way they have these sticks set up,
it's like they have these animals, skins that go over is that animal skin.
That's canvas. But that is, yeah.
So it's, it just looks like it's the skin. So they have these canvas.
Do they have loops where they tie it.
Down? Yeah, they do.
And then they put the lean sticks on the outside also to kind of hold the,
the a canvas in place. But nomadic.
Yeah, it is very nomadic and it's man. It's awesome though.
It's so fascinating to live like that and compare it to the modern world. Like,
because not too many people get the opportunity anymore and it's, uh,
you're so wired for it. It's weird, you know? Like,
so your body just falls into place for it. Yeah. Your,
all your dopamine reset, you know,
like you'll be out there fishing and every day you'll just be like,
you got a fish, you know? Cause you're relying on it so much. And uh,
whereas like in normal, everyday life here in town and stuff,
when you get that excited, you know, like you're always, uh,
you don't have any schedule. So every day you wake up, it's like, well,
what do I need to do today? And you can kind of, you're just free to choose.
You know, you can go try hunting, you can go collect berries,
you go find your reindeer and you know,
like there's just a number of options, all available to you.
And uh, they're all directly related to your life. So you don't have any,
you know, there's no money being thrown around out there. It's this kind of,
I'm hungry. Let's go fishing. Let's go to that spot. Cause it's cool. You know,
what do they do if they get injured, that's a problem. They actually have.
There's good and bad out there. And it just can, they, uh, uh,
they can call in a helicopter, but it's so far out, you know,
it's going to be a problem.
I've broken some ribs out there and had some myself had some serious injuries
that just wasn't an option. You know, you just got to tough it out.
Cause there's like, what's the refrigerator other than ribs, bro. Oh man.
The high chop,
my knee with an act one time with cut a tendon that tendon on the inside of your
knee right in half. And the, uh,
my other knee had recently had a knee surgery.
So I was just laid up literally like three days,
I was just laying in a TB couldn't move. I had to roll over poop in a bag.
It was brutal. But then, you know,
they rubbed like pine SAP on it and it actually healed. And uh, really, yeah.
I've I've could have swore it would get infected,
but they were just packed it with pine SAP and yeah.
So a little dried up pretty fast.
What happened to the ligament or? I don't know.
It doesn't really feel it as bothering me,
but I didn't know it was cut at the time. It was only later when I did the MRI.
Yeah. They told me it was, but it was healed. Well, I don't know what it did.
They said it was hanging on by a thread.
I don't know if it ever healed back or what.
But I don't even care. You know? I don't, I.
Don't notice it. Yeah. As being weak.
So bothered my surgery knee hurts more than that knee.
So what kind of surgery? I see a couple of ACL's. Yeah. You know how it is.
Yeah, I.
Do. So w when you, one of those videos was showing a net,
is that the way they would fish? They.
Would do both. Yeah.
A lot of times you put nets out and a lot of times you'd just go cast your
Birch, you know, homemade rod and just.
Yeah, this is, um, this is a net.
They would just move it across the middle of the river.
And set it and leave it there. Just trying there's a set in it right now.
And then how do they.
Do that thing that they do on the ice? When they do that, when.
It's frozen, when it's frozen, when they cut a hole.
And then they somehow, or another, get that net to go through.
To cut a hole, you cut two holes, and then, uh,
you get a long stick and you shove it in the hole and slide then like
push the stick under the ice. And on one end, you have a string tied to it.
So you push it and keep trying that until you get it to slide under the ice to
the other hole. And when you do,
you pull the stick out of that hole and tie your net on the end of the other
one, and you can pull.
So on the string string on the end of the stick,
do you catch it with a hook or something and try to pull it.
Up? Okay, let me see if I can. Yeah, no, you just, uh,
you pull the actual stick up through with the string tied on the back side of
it. So yeah, you just got to get the stick to,
you might have to three or four times slide it under the ice until it ends up
where the other hole is. Yeah. It works good. I did it on that alone show.
It was fun. Yeah. That's why I'm asking. Yeah. Yeah. And.
So that must be really hard to do by yourself because I've seen people do it on
television, on those survival. Yeah. Oh, right.
It wasn't too bad. No, it was, uh, that part wasn't too hard,
but, uh, no. Yeah. I don't know.
It was all good stuff to learn out there with the natives and then came in handy.
For sure. Have you ever seen the Werner Herzog documentary?
That's all the native that I actually first met that I was telling you about
that you're a guy, he, uh, isn't a nomad himself. He's a fur trapper.
So he does all that real similar to that Werner Herzog documentary,
and actually, uh,
where they filmed that isn't that far from where I was in Siberia. So he one,
yeah,
I went for a trapping and with him one year and it was kind of showed me the
rough ropes on a, you know, he told, showed me a topographical map. He's like,
there's a cabin, there's a cabin, there's a cabin, uh,
through some noodles and each of my cabins, you know,
we stocked them with noodles and then he just dropped me off and said,
see you in a month and a half or whatever.
And so just was out there and I had a stupid little other
wrestling go. Yeah, good times. This kids wrestle a lot. Yeah.
It's a good way to grow up, man. Always just outside, having a good time. Yeah,
I guess so.
The Werner Herzog documentary was really fascinating because as you watch those
people and when they talk about like no depression
or they're all happy, they're always laughing. They love what they do.
They enjoy what they do. But even though that's like, everybody's goal, right.
Everybody's.
Goal is happy. Right, right. Everybody's like, that. I'm not doing that. Yeah.
That's a fascinating conversation in of itself because I, you know,
having been up there and stuff, I'm just like, man,
this is an awesome way to live.
If it was like my friends and my family in that context, it's like,
I would probably choose that way of life. But you know,
then you find yourself here in America and you're stuck on your phone. And,
and it's just so unsatisfying that it's, it's interesting to experience both,
but it's kind of hard to, uh, I mean, I mean,
cause you're in where you, so my family's all here. Everybody's all here.
We're not nomads, you know? Right.
But it's funny to have experienced that way of life and almost think, man,
that's kind of what we're made for. It's almost better. I wish,
I wish I could implement that in some way. You know, here.
I'm aware of that because people say it, but I'm not aware of it in the sense.
That I've experienced before. I've never.
Experienced like just completely living I've hunted. Right.
I've camped out for a week. A time.
Yeah. You start to get a feel for it. Maybe, maybe not.
It seems like when there's no other option, like that's how you're eating.
We were eating mountain house. And when we.
Shot a deer, then we'd eat the deer. Right?
Yeah, no, I, you were speaking of which, um,
you've read those like Quanah Parker and stuff of movies, books and stuff. Uh,
me too. And now having lived with those natives, it's like,
there's so much good there. You see like, uh,
they really are happy people. So there's a giant, um,
difference between the people who live in the village and the people who live in
the forest and the people who live in the forest,
you would genuinely call like happy people. Like this is they're knowledgeable,
they're being productive. They're doing all this stuff.
Whereas when you go to the village, it's just like, everybody's drunk,
nobody's doing anything. It's like just a total wreck,
especially villages that don't have any rain you're hurting connected to them.
Cause they kind of don't have their cultural context to, uh,
remain connected to. So the, uh, so at least in the villages that have rained,
you're hurting,
the kids can go out in the summer and live with the reindeer herders and kind of
experience that. And it gives them a source of pride. It gives them like,
uh, the experience of living in the forest becoming like kind of really
in touch with nature and all that. And whereas in the village,
it's just kind of a dark hole. Everybody drinks the, in those native villages,
it's like the statistic is that one out of three people die of suicide,
homicide or accident. So it's just, and you feel it like,
I've got some stories of that. That's just brutal too. But the, uh, the.
Now you were saying that these people that live in the villages outside of the,
the people that are nomadic,
those people live in a real way.
It's like, there's a, it's like unconnected to any other villages.
You have to only get there by helicopter. You fly in and it's, what.
Are they, what is their, their job? Like what do they do? Some of them.
Like in relation to the reindeer herds. And I don't know.
I think a lot of people live off of like grandma's pension, which, you know,
in Russia is probably like a hundred bucks or something, you know? And, uh,
you know, some people work at the school and the administration,
it's just not a lot going on, but a lot of people are sustenance, like hunters,
fishers, and trappers that live in the village. But yeah, it's, it's,
it's so weird. Cause the first time I went there, it was just like, man,
this place is crazy. Everybody's drunk. And just like being in a zombie land,
like even when the reindeer herders will come from the woods,
they'll like run into their house, locked the doors, shut everything up.
And then you'll just see everybody like marching over to cars and then they'll
start banging on the doors and the windows and the,
and the guys inside the house get out of here. You know, I can just, just,
just drunks, just, it's just insanity, like, but it's, and it's weird.
Cause then you take the same people go into the woods,
they sober up and it's just night and day. It's so weird. And then, uh,
yeah, it's by the, you see the effects of it. So like I was telling you earlier,
it was pretty brutal. Uh, I, when I first went to the,
over there, there was like a little F you know, a nice family.
It was like Dasha and R Jones. You know, these and their two little kids. Well,
the first time I was there, I got back, uh,
or I met the family, you know,
I lived with them in their TP and all this and that.
And then I went back to America. Sure enough. Right after I left a tree,
fell on their daughter, out in the woods and killed her.
And then they, after that, got, you know,
started drinking a bunch, quit.
The nomadic way of life started living in the village. Uh,
I went back over there, the girl or the, uh,
the guy got stabbed in some drunken brawl or whatever, and was in the,
in the hospital, uh, slowly recovered.
He had this big old gash with a piece of glass.
Someone had cut him open with he slowly recovered and then went back to his
village. The drinking continued sure enough. They killed him.
They took his body to back to the morgue, which the, uh,
uh, the freezers had broken. Right. So it's in the middle of the summer,
this bodies there, but it was a murder.
So they had to wait for the police to come and investigate,
but it's way out in the middle of nowhere.
So it took like a week and it's like a week later,
it was just brutal.
Go over there had to pick up this guy who was your buddy?
And his wife is helping me like dress this body. Cause they're basically like,
okay, we're done with the investigation. You can go bury him. Composing. Yeah.
Is crucial. I mean, and the wife is helping you. Yeah. And the wives helping,
we like took care of his body,
like pick them up and like skin slips off and all that stuff. And then,
uh, take care of, you know, we took care of him, buried it and buried him.
It was pretty rough. But then a year later I come back,
she had gotten remarried, you know, kind of starting her life. Again.
It turns out he hangs himself not long afterwards. So again, it's,
this woman has lost two husbands and her daughter, she just her and her son,
I just found out a little while ago, she got too drunk,
passed out in the snow and died.
So now it's just the one son left from this whole family.
And you hear those stories often up there, it's like really rough,
you know, but that's balanced with what is, could be so beautiful.
It's like such a juxtaposition because you're out in this life where you have
like, people are happy, you know,
ultimate freedom and they're doing great, but when they,
but the village and the alcohol just does this whole other thing to them.
And it's like, these people who are so beautiful, so nice, so friendly,
you know, so open to you. Uh,
but you just see them suffering so much from this scourge. It's like, man,
it's brutal. It's crazy.
That the scourge doesn't extend to the people that live in the forest.
Yeah. Once they get out in the woods, you know,
they don't have the alcohol available and they don't. But even if.
They did, do you think they would drink it? It seems like, yeah.
They usually drink it. You know, like when they go to the village,
they get it and then they'll take off to the woods and they'll drink for a few
days until it's all gone. And then it's also back to normal,
but it's back to normal. I think it's a genetic thing. Or did they have,
that's been a good question. I've thought about that. You know, there's that,
there's that hypothesis like that maybe it is because people have been
introduced to alcohol more recently that they're, they're not, uh, you know,
can't process it as well, but that was the thing. It could also, there,
you could also have the explanation.
It's probably a combination of both that when you do like have, uh,
people that are largely stripped of their culture and they're like, you know,
cause even the Ivanka is cool as their way of life is, you know, they had,
you know,
70 years of communism where they came in and they collected all the best
reindeer herders and said that they were like, uh, cool locks or what, you know,
like the boars Schwab,
because they have too many reindeer sent them all to prison, you know,
like collectivized, all these reindeer herds, these family herds,
they turned into like government herds. So it's been like,
their culture is not completely intact. Uh, and it's like, well,
there might be enough because just from that kind of thing,
to explain some of the alcoholism,
but I imagine it's a combination of both, you know.
I've always wondered that about the native Americans,
the same sort of situation, right?
Like how much of it is despair for them being removed from their normal nomadic
way of life. Right.
How much of it is just the fact that they don't have the genes to
process alcohol because they didn't evolve with alcohol. You know,
there's that story of Cynthia Ann Parker was on the wall out there.
It was a quantum Parker's mother and she was kidnapped by the command. She,
when she was nine and then recaptured by the Texas Rangers,
I think it was the Texas Rangers when she was like 30 with a
child. And she was begging to go back to the Comanches.
She did not want to live.
And she found a way of living that the settlers had was just pathetic.
You know, they.
The command,
she lived in a world where everything was magic and like the sky was a God,
the wind worshiped nature, you lived off the land,
followed the Buffalo herd. And then all of a sudden you're.
In a village up in a house and you got it. Yeah.
Exactly. Jesus on you. You're like.
Man, it's the same, same thing over there. It's like, right.
It's this juxtaposition of ultimate freedom in this beautiful way of life versus
like you're in the village, in this little house, you know,
these people are never going to be good,
like in Russian society because they live in some remote village, no internet,
nothing, you know, like, and then,
but they're also the ones that aren't connected to their way of life are also
not going to be great Vinky because they've just lived in this little house and
drink a bunch. So
if people get caught in that weird in-between place.
It seems like even if it's not cultural, there's some,
there's some thing that draws people to that way of life when they
live like that. It's very satisfying.
Absolutely. Uh, from my own experience, like, yeah, I'm not a native, you know,
but, but I lived with them and it was awesome and it like spoke to me deeply,
same thing, even on, you know, things like the alone show. It's like, oh man,
this is what we're built for. You know, like you really feel it it's, it's, uh,
you know, an interesting thing,
like I don't have like a great memory or, you know,
I don't usually have good, very vivid or interesting dreams,
but when I'm in the forest, you know,
it's like I have all these vivid dreams that seem really meaningful and
powerful. It's like my memory's way better.
I remember people that I long forgotten just because you go so long without
distraction, you can really delve into your thoughts and, uh, yeah,
it's a fascinating thing to experience. And once you do, you kind of realize,
you know,
what's missing and it was interesting listening to you talk to like Elon Musk
and as the, you know, inevitable March of progress moves forward,
it's like we kind of lose things, but we don't actually know what we're losing,
you know? And so, uh,
as far as like the natives and like one of the reasons I want to see them
preserve their cultural culture and their old ways and take it forward is just
as kind of a, a memory receptacle so that as things move forward,
we can still connect, you know, with, with what we've lost. Cause it is.